# Visualizing and Munging Stock Data
Why do investment banks and consumer banks use Python to build quantitative models to predict returns and evaluate risks? What makes Python one of the most popular tools for financial analysis? You are going to learn basic python to import, manipulate and visualize stock data in this module. As Python is highly readable and simple enough, you can build one of the most popular trading models - Trend following strategy by the end of this module!

# 学習目標
Explain the 2 major reasons why python is one of the most popular language for doing financial analysis
Summarize the 4 major python packages that are essential for doing financial data analysis
Show the overall procedure of importing CSV files into a DataFrame
Select the important columns of a DataFrame and create new features of a DataFrame to further enhance the analysis
Build a simple trading strategy - Trend following strategy base on the concepts and codings given

# 1.0 Module Introduction

# 1.1 Packages for Data Analysis

# 1.2 Importing data
0:04
The very first step of financial data analysis is to get data. One of the popular format for storing data is CSV file. In this video, you will learn how to import files with CSV format and how to save data into DataFrame structure. We have to import pandas in the notebook before we use any functions or data structure from pandas. To import pandas, you can type, import pandas in Jupyter Notebook like this. It is more convenient to use a short name. Hence, alternatively, you can type import pandas as pd. Then you just need pd to represent pandas. For example, if you want to use any modules or functions from pandas, you can type pd FunctionName or pd ModuleName. Now, we want to import two data files, facebook.csv and microsoft.csv. These are historical stock data of Facebook and Microsoft. We can import these two files with two lines of codes like that. We are using DataFrame to store data, therefore we need a pd. The method from_csv help us to read the CSV files saved in the form of data. We assign names fb and ms to these two DataFrames. We can use a method type to check the data structure of fb. As we can see, this is a DataFrame from pandas. By looking at this output, the historical data of Facebook has been successfully imported as a DataFrame. In the next video, we will explore the details of methods and attributes of DataFrame.


# 1.3 Basics of Dataframe
## DataFrame.ipynb
## DataFrame.py


# 1.4 Generate new variables in Dataframe
## Create+new+features+and+columns+in+DataFrame.ipynb
## Create+new+features+and+columns+in+DataFrame.py

# 1.5 Trading Strategy
## Build+a+simple+trading+strategy.ipynb
## Build+a+simple+trading+strategy.py
